TITLE: Restructurating Science Learning with Emergent Systems Microworld (ESM)-based Learning Environments

ABSTRACT: Details!
This work combines agent-based modeling of complex emergent systems and constructionism to design learning environments termed as an Emergent Systems Microworld (ESM), which with its consistent underlying rules regarding agent properties/behaviors, serve as an excellent experimental platform for learners to investigate different aspects of modeled phenomena through collective knowledge construction by engaging in scientific inquiry practices. The ESM design approach is based on restructuration theory which argues for the design and study of new representational forms for learning and expressing knowledge. Three studies were conducted that investigate how restructuration properties in ESM design supports student engagement in doing science by shaping and using scientific inquiry practices to learn about disciplinary ideas.

1. INTRODUCTION: Details!
The overall goal of the work is to investigate if and how an ESM maximally utilizes epistemic agency of students in a science classroom. ESM environments meet specifications set by NGSS that define a space where 3D science learning may take place involving development of interconnected understanding across a set of SEPs, DCIs, and CCs. Such a leaning approach requires students to 1. gain ocntext about the taget phenomenon, 2. ask relevant research questions, 3. design tests and verify ideas through ivestigations and 4. constuct evidence based explanantions. This is challenging to achieve in a traditional classroom, but not so much so using an ESM due to increased opportunites for self-paced engagement. ESMs encompass almost every principle that Wilensky and Papert touch upon in their theory of restructurations (power, learnability, congitive, social, affective, diversity). A medium that caters towards these features is considered to restructure some knowledge base by presenting a new way of engaging with it or viewing it such that comprehension and utility value is greatly improved. ESMs achieve this by capturing only key ideas/behaviours inherent within complex emergent phenomenon using much simpler rules whose interconnectedness become more apparent as they are made observable in the microworld though engaging Human Computer Interactions (HCIs). 

2. DESIGN FRAMEWORK: ESMS AND ESM-BASED CURRICULA: Details!
Emerrgent properties of complex systems are hard to complrehend using traditional empirical methods. ESMs with their superioir learnability properties can capture both agent-level and system-level through agent-based restucturations that readily observable and  can be manipulated to engage in learning through constructionism. NetLogo, NetTango Web and Swarm are popular tools used to build ESMs. ESMs were derived from ESSs with the difference being that the former promotes investigation and the latter, discovery. Core design features of ESMs include visualization of agents/system-level components, manipulation of agents/system-level components, tracking of system-lvel changes, agent based coding, and micro-level as well as macro-level validation. Agent based curricula aim to build microworlds that reflect Big-M models and help students build an accurate mental small-m model of the phenomenon of interest. Well structured ESM based curricula should facilitate expression sn validation of ideas, experimentation, construction of evidence based and logic driven explanantion arrived at via scientific reasoning and sharing of ideas. Only those ABMs that enable constructionist learing, are considered to be ESMs.

3. EXAMPLE 1 :- GENEVO - AN ESM TO LEARN ABOUT GENETICS AND EVOLUTION: Skim.
An ABM comprises agents which may be dynamic or static and the environment in which they live. Desiging an ABM primarily involves identifying agents, defining their properties/behaviours/interactions, and faciliatating setting of environmental conditions if required. Target aggregate mechanism or pattersn that is to be modelled should then emerge from collective interactions of all egents. The general pedagogical approach to an ESM based curriculem involves an interative learning comprised of exploration, investigation, presentation and reflection stages. In traditional instructive learning of complex concepts often involves advanced mathematics, which limits reachability of these imporant ideas such that only highly skilled individuals may access them. ESMs use an interactive environment to represent concepts that otherwise are shared through equations. This easier to comprehend medium of delivery makes it possible to effectively share the knowlege it models to many more people, including young children.

4. DESIGNING ESMS AND ESM-BASED CURRICULA FOR EPISTEMICALLY EXPANSIVE LEARNING: Details! 

5. EXAMPLE 2 :- ESMS TO LEARN ABOUT POPULATION DYNAMICS AND EVOLUTION: Flip.

6. STUDENTS’ EPISTEMIC CONNECTIONS BETWEEN PRACTICES AND IDEAS IN AN ESM BASED CURRICULUM: Details! 

7. EXAMPLE 3 :- AN ESM TO LEARN ABOUT HABITAT PREFERENCE BEHAVIOR AND EXPERIMENTATION: Flip.

8. AN ESM-MEDIATED CO-DESIGN APPROACH FOR INTEGRATING COMPUTATIONAL THINKING IN A SCIENCE CLASSROOM: Skip :)

9. CONCLUSIONS: Details!